{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Contributing to the LLM Personality Matching Project\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We welcome contributions to this project! This document provides guidelines for setting up your development environment, adhering to project standards, and submitting your work.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Getting Started: Development Environment Setup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This project uses {\b PDM} for dependency and environment management. It simplifies setup and guarantees reproducible environments.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 1. Essential Tools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system: * {\b Python}: Version 3.8 or higher is recommended. You can download it from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.python.org/downloads/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
python.org
}}}
. * {\b Git}: For version control. You can download it from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://git-scm.com/downloads"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
git-scm.com
}}}
. * {\b Node.js and npm}: Required by the documentation build script to automatically render Mermaid diagrams. * Download the {\b LTS} version from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://nodejs.org/en/download/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
nodejs.org
}}}
. * During installation, ensure the default {\b \u8220"Add to PATH\u8221"} option is enabled. After installing, you may need to restart your computer or terminal for the {\f1 npm} command to be recognized. * {\b Project Dependencies}: Once Node.js is installed, navigate to the project root and install the required Node.js development tools: {\f1 bash     npm install} This reads the {\f1 package.json} file and installs dependencies locally into a {\f1 node_modules} folder. * {\b Pandoc}: A universal document converter used to generate RTF and other document formats. You can download it from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pandoc.org/installing.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
pandoc.org
}}}
. * {\b PDM}: The Python dependency manager. Install it once with pip (if you haven\u8217't already): {\f1 bash     # It's best to run this from a terminal *outside* of any virtual environment.     pip install --user pdm} > {\b Note for Windows Users:} If you see a {\f1 pdm: The term 'pdm' is not recognized...} error in a new terminal, it means the install location is not in your system\u8217's PATH. The most reliable way to run PDM is to use {\f1 python -m pdm} instead of just {\f1 pdm}. All examples below will use this robust form.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 2. Project Installation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 With PDM installed, setting up the entire project environment is a single command. From the project\u8217's root directory, run:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 python -m pdm install -G dev\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This command will automatically: 1. Create a local virtual environment inside the project\u8217's {\f1 .venv} folder. 2. Install all required packages from the {\f1 pdm.lock} file. 3. Install all development packages (like {\f1 pytest} and {\f1 pre-commit}). 4. Install the pre-commit hooks into your Git configuration.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To activate the virtual environment manually for use with your IDE, you can still use the standard command: * On Windows (PowerShell): {\f1 .venv\\Scripts\\Activate.ps1} * On macOS/Linux: {\f1 source .venv/bin/activate}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 3. Adding New Dependencies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your contribution requires a new package, add it with PDM. This will update both {\f1 pyproject.toml} and {\f1 pdm.lock} automatically.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 # Add a new core dependency\line
python -m pdm add new-package-name\line
\line
# Add a new development-only dependency\line
python -m pdm add -G dev new-dev-package-name\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Contribution Workflow\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 1. Create a Branch\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before making any changes, create a new branch from the {\f1 main} branch. Use a descriptive name that reflects the nature of your work.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 # Example for a new feature\line
git checkout -b feat/add-new-analysis-metric\line
\line
# Example for a bug fix\line
git checkout -b fix/correct-data-parsing-error\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 2. Make Your Changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Write your code and update documentation as needed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Code}: Modify the Python files in {\f1 src/} or {\f1 tests/}. The pre-commit hooks will automatically handle formatting (Black) and linting (Flake8).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Documentation}: To edit the main README, modify {\f1 README.template.md} and its diagram files. To edit this contribution guide, modify {\f1 CONTRIBUTING.md}. The {\f1 build-docs} hook will automatically generate the final {\f1 README.md}, {\f1 README.rtf}, and {\f1 CONTRIBUTING.rtf}. {\b Do not edit generated files directly.}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 3. Run the Test Suite\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This project includes tests that must pass before a pull request will be merged. The pre-commit hooks do not run these tests automatically, so you must run them manually.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Use the PDM script shortcut:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 python -m pdm run test\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 4. Commit Your Changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Use clear and descriptive commit messages. We follow the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Conventional Commits
}}}
 specification.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Important: The Two-Stage Commit Process}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Because our pre-commit hooks can modify files (like formatting code or rebuilding the README), you may sometimes need to commit twice. This is the expected and correct behavior.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b First Attempt}: Run {\f1 git commit} as you normally would.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 \f1 git commit -m "feat(analysis): Add support for chi-squared test"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 If a hook modifies a file, the commit will be aborted with a message like \u8220"{\f1 files were modified by this hook}\u8221". This is a safety feature that gives you a chance to review the automatic changes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Review and Re-commit}:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Review the changes made by the hook (e.g., {\f1 git diff}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab If the changes are correct, add them to the staging area:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 \f1 git add .\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Run the {\b exact same {\f1 git commit} command again}. This time, the hooks will find no issues and your commit will succeed.\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Format}: {\f1 type(scope): short description}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Examples}:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 feat(analysis): Add support for chi-squared test}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 fix(parser): Handle empty response files gracefully}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 docs(readme): Update contribution workflow}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 test(orchestrator): Add test for reprocess mode}\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 6. Submit a Pull Request\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Push your branch to your fork on GitHub.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Open a pull request against the {\f1 main} branch of the original repository.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Provide a clear title and a detailed description of your changes. If your PR addresses an existing issue, link to it in the description (e.g., \u8220"Closes #123\u8221").\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Reporting Bugs and Suggesting Enhancements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you find a bug or have an idea for an improvement, please {\b open an issue} on GitHub. * For bugs, include a clear title, steps to reproduce, expected behavior, and any relevant logs. * For enhancements, describe the feature and why it would be valuable.\par}
}
